Method

Answer:
A Java method is a group of statements that work together to complete a certain task and return the outcome to the caller.

Static

Definition:
staying still for a long time without moving or making any changes
Example 1:
There was so much static on the radio we couldn't hear the broadcast.
Example 2:
He was getting a lot of static about his decision.

Instance

Definition:
a specific instance of a fact, circumstance, or incident, especially one that serves as an illustration of the norm
Example 1:
There have been several instances of violence at the school.
Example 2:
I don't usually side with the management, but in this instance I agree with what they're saying



Class
Gets loaded from the filesystem by the class loader
There is only 1 copy of the class loaded into memory.
The class has instance and static methods defined in it.

Objects
Are created from the class using the new operator.
When you create an object you get a new copy of the instance methods
There can be more than 1 objects/instances of a class.
An object does not have a copy of the static methods.

Static Methods
There is only 1 copy of static methods and it lives in the class.
Everybody that want to use static methods must get them from the class not object.
Objects do not get a copy of the static methods.

Instance methods
There is a new copy of instance methods in each object.
You cannot access instance methods from the class. You must point to the object



What is static method?

A method is a group/sequence of java statements(instructions to the computer to perform an action).

A static has been defined as something that does not change or a piece of memory allocated only once when the program is initialized.

Therefore it can be said the a static method is a group of java instructions that is allocated once only when the class is created(loaded into memory).

This happens when you create a java class and you define a method inside it and you put the static keyword in the beginning. By placing the static keyword you make the method static.



What is an instance method?

A method is a group/sequence of java statements(instructions to the computer to perform an action).

An instance has been defined as a particular appearance or or occurrence of something.

Therefore it can be said the a instance method is a particular occurrence of a group of java instructions.

This happens when you create a java class and you define a method inside it and you do not put the static keyword in the beginning. By omitting the static keyword you make the method instance not static.

