OOP 13 Access Modifiers


Access

Definition: the capability or chance to approach or enter a location.
Example: the staircase gives access to the top floor
Example: information can be accessed from several files and displayed at the same time


Modifier

Definition: a person or thing that makes partial or minor changes to something
Example 1: mood modifiers like Valium and Lithium
Example 2: It contains friction modifier which is recommended for limited-slip units.



Access Modifier

Definition: Access modifiers are keywords in object-oriented languages that set the accessibility of classes, methods, and other members
Example 1: private - the property or method can ONLY be accessed within the class.
Example 2: public - the property or method can be accessed from everywhere. This is default.


Access Modifier is a special keyword that controls access to a particular part of the program. 
As in real life somethings are private and you do not want to share with anybody so too can programs. 
The following are possible access levels that a program may grant:
private
protected
default aka package
public

Private:
There are certain things that you are not willing to share even with you family. e.g Toothbrush. 
A class can have member variables or methods which it is not willing to share with any other class including those that extend it. 
Such a variable or method is defined by access-modifier private.

Protected:
There are certain things that you are only willing to share with you children. 
Like money. A class can have a member variable or method which it only wants to allow sub-classes to access. 
Such a variable of method is defined with a protected access-modifier keyword.

Default:
If you do not provide an access modifier for a member variable or method it gets the default access modifier. 
The default access modifier is not visible but is implicitly place by the compiler and is assumed to be there if nothing is placed. 
It is also referred to as the package access modifier because it restrict access to only those within the same package as the class in question.
